[Popup] New component (#37960)
mui/material-ui: docs/data/base/components/popup/popup.md

:::warning
By default, clicking outside the popup does not hide it.
If you need this behavior, you can use the [Click-Away Listener](/base-ui/react-click-away-listener/) component.
:::

## Customization

### Placement

The Popup's default placement is `bottom`.
You can change it using the `placement` prop.
Try changing this value to `top` in the interactive demo below to see how it works:

{{"demo": "Placement.js", "defaultCodeOpen": false }}

### Transitions

You can animate opening and closing of the Popup using CSS transitions, CSS animations, or third party animation libraries.

To enable transitions, first of all, set the `withTransition` prop.
It will make the Popup wait for the exit animation to finish before unmounting.

Then, instead of placing the Popup contents directly as its children, wrap them in a function that receives an object with `requestOpen: boolean` and `onExited: () => void` fields.

Run the open transition when `requestOpen` becomes `true` and the close transition when it changes to `false`.
When the exit transition finishes, call the provided `onExited` function to let the Popup know it can be unmounted.

> If using CSS transitions or animations, you can use the `onTransitionEnd`/`onAnimationEnd` events to detect when the transition is over.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If using CSS transitions or animations, you can use the `onTransitionEnd` or `onAnimationEnd` events, respectively, to detect when the transition is over.
```

{{"demo": "AnimatedPopup.js"}}

### Disable portal

> To render the popup where it is defined in the source, without using [React portals](https://react.dev/reference/react-dom/createPortal), pass in the `disablePortal` prop.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To render the Popup where it's defined in the source, without using [React portals](https://react.dev/reference/react-dom/createPortal), pass in the `disablePortal` prop.
```

> Note that it may cause visual clipping if a popup is placed in a container without visible overflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that it may cause visual clipping if a Popup is placed in a container without visible overflow.
```

> A way to prevent clipping while not using portals is to leverage fixed positioning.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use fixed positioning to prevent clipping when not using portals.
```

> The Popup has the `strategy` prop, that is responsible for determining how the position is calculated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Popup has the `strategy` prop which is responsible for determining how the position is calculated.
```

When set to `"fixed"`, the fixed CSS position will be used and the Popup won't be subject to overflow hiding.

{{"demo": "DisabledPortalPopup.js"}}

### Floating UI middleware

If you need to modify the underlying [Floating UI middleware](https://floating-ui.com/docs/middleware), you can do so via the `middleware` prop.

> By default, the Popup uses [`offset`](https://floating-ui.com/docs/offset) (with the value provided in the `offset` prop) and [`flip`](https://floating-ui.com/docs/flip) functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the Popup uses the [`offset`](https://floating-ui.com/docs/offset) (with the value provided in the `offset` prop) and [`flip`](https://floating-ui.com/docs/flip) functions.
```

---
productId: base-ui
title: React Popup component
components: Popup
githubLabel: 'component: popup'
waiAria: https://www.w3.org/WAI/ARIA/apg/patterns/tooltip/
---

# Popup

<p class="description">The Popup component is a utility that lets you display content in tooltips and popovers.</p>

{{"component": "modules/components/ComponentLinkHeader.js", "design": false}}

{{"component": "modules/components/ComponentPageTabs.js"}}

## Introduction

The Popper is a utility component for creating various kinds of popups.
It relies on the [Floating UI](https://floating-ui.com/) third-party library for positioning.

:::info
Base UI also contains the [Popper](/base-ui/react-popper/) component with a very similar API.

> It's based on the [Popper](https://popper.js.org/) library, which is in maintenance mode and it's deprecated itself.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It's based on the [Popper](https://popper.js.org/) library which, itself, is deprecated and in maintenance mode.
```

Author: I meant that the Popper component is deprecated here. I guess there's a way to frame this better.

How about:

> Base UI also contains the deprecated [Popper](/base-ui/react-popper/) component with a very similar API.
> It's based on the [Popper](https://popper.js.org/) library, which is in maintenance mode.
